Israel and Hamas appear to be on the
verge of an agreement to release some of
the hostages being held in Gaza prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he has
summoned his War cabinet to address what
he called developments in the matter of
the release of our hostages the
political leader of the Palestinian
militants ISM Han has said that
negotiators are quote close to reaching
a deal it's thought the agreement would
see a swap of Palestinian prisoners
being held in Israeli jails for a
significant number of Israeli hostages
taken by Hamas on October 7th a
temporary truce of several days is also
said to be part of the deal as is the
movement of humanitarian Aid into
Gaza US President Joe Biden told
reporters that he is very hopeful the
hostages will be free soon we working on
this intensively for weeks as you all
know I've spoken recently about it with
both the Prime Minister Netanyahu and
the uh M cutter and my team has been in
the region shuttering shuttling uh
between
capitals we uh we're now very close very
close uh we could bring some of these
hostages home very soon but I don't want
to get into into the details of things
because nothing is done until it's done
and uh when we have more to say we will
but things are looking good at the
moment now several families of Israel
hostages have voiced concern that the
country's War cabinet isn't doing enough
to bring their loved ones home relatives
met with lawmakers to urge them not to
pursue legislation that would allow the
death penalty for captured Palestinian
militants relatives of hostages
protesting in Tel Aviv as Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu summoned his
War cabinet admit growing signs that a
deal to release hostages taken by Hamas
could be emminent
our second goal is the return of the
hostages we're making progress I don't
think it's worth saying too much not at
even this moment but I hope there will
be good news soon we are now at the
closest point we ever have been uh in in
reaching and an agreement we are very
optimistic we are very hopeful but uh we
are also very keen for this uh mediation
to to succeed in reaching a humanitarian
truth the tentative deal could see the
release of over 50 hostages sources say
the progress comes after some families
accused a knesset's national security
Committee of endangering the lives of
their missing loved ones now there's
some
optimism I think the only thing that I
could call Justice is bring everyone
back home but I do understand that it's
difficult and I hope this deal will help
us bring everybody back home as
well and I'm really hopeful that they'll
come back
soon many here don't want to risk
anything now that a return of at least
some of the captives could be just
around the
corner let's take you live to Tel Aviv
now where relatives of hostages are
protesting demanding the release of
their loved ones and more action from
the government Benjamin Netanyahu is
currently meeting with members of his
cabinet to hammer out the last details
of the possible release of 50 Israeli
hostages as it's being reported earlier
a Us official quoted by the Reuters news
agency said any hostages released would
mostly be women and children with 150
Palestinian prisoners freed by Israel in
exchange for
them and we can now get more from DW
correspondent Ben fulin who joins us
from Jerusalem Ben what are you you
hearing about this hostage deal and how
it might play
out a military spokesperson has just uh
front of the media and said that
progress is being made uh that's what
we're being told from all sides uh from
the Americans from the Qatari side the
mediators or the main mediators in this
Hamas as well saying that the ball is in
Israel's court and uh we've had tonight
uh extraordinary meetings by the war
cabinet followed by the SEC security
cabinet a wider cabinet and also uh the
government now uh a deal is on the cusp
according to all sources but we're yet
to have been told what's going on uh
whether or not a deal is made tonight it
would take another full day for Israel
to go through the legal procedures that
are uh related to releasing any
Palestinian prisoners that's what Hamas
wants here it wants uh the release of
Palestinian prisoners in exchange for
these hostages of course uh we're not
going to get all hostages released and
Hamas is not going to get all the
Palestinian prisoners released that it
wants when you take a look at the
figures that are being thrown around at
the moment uh this would be though the
first sustained pause in the fighting in
45 days of war the first deescalation it
would be a major breakthrough um it's
yet to be seen of course but sources
also say the government would be
prepared to extend any such deal to get
all of the hostages eventually out of
the Gaza Strip would be major news now
Ben these talks have been going on for
quite some time what led to what now
appears to be a
breakthrough well it's been a very hard
line that Netanyahu and his government
have been uh following all hostages
equals a ceasefire now we're hearing for
the first time okay maybe some hostages
women and children for example and in
phases so possibly uh 50 hostages over a
time period of 5 days 10 a day while
surveillance drones are taken down by
the Israeli side so that Hamas Fighters
can release the hostages and won't
reveal their hideouts or the tunnels
where they're possibly holding these
hostages uh it would be a more realistic
approach to this operation considering
that some 236 hostages are said to be
held uh over 35 of those children 62 of
them women and eight aged over 80 one of
them being uh 85 years old the youngest
being only 9 months old it's a very
tricky situation considering as well
that we're not sure if Hamas is holding
all of these hostages they could be held
by private individuals and other
militant groups within the Gaza Strip uh
what's changing now though is the far
right right opposition uh to this deal
so far uh two of the parties in this
Coalition of netanyahu's have said they
would not allow such a deal to go
through this is what's being discussed
right now at this hour and that could be
the Breakthrough DWS Ben for zolan in
Jerusalem
thanks Aban is an American Israeli in
Tel Aviv and two members of her family
were killed in the October 7th Terror
attacks three others are believed to be
Hamas hostages earlier we asked her what
she makes of these
negotiations I try not to pay a ton of
attention to it until I think it's real
we've gotten our hopes up we know that
things are fragile um and we are just
waiting for something to be concrete the
fact that four hostages have been
released and one has been rescued is
amazing it's better than nothing at this
point but it also feels very challenging
that we have to fight to continue to
make sure the hostage issue doesn't get
lost and that people move on this you
know yesterday was the International Day
of children and we didn't hear word from
UNICEF we haven't heard word from any un
or Global health organizations regarding
sign of life or medical status of anyone
and right now we feel like we're we're
unsure how the world isn't screaming on
behalf of the hostages as an American
and an Israeli and a human we are sad
about every loss of life but it feels
like the world is not screaming hard
enough for these innocent civilians that
are being held
hostage that was Abby on an American
Israeli relative of Gaza hostages who
spoke to D earlier today now for more on
this proposed deal that looks like it's
on the table I'm joined by DW's shaie
rosanes shaie what more can you tell us
about these possibly 50 hostages that
are set to be released and and what time
line we're looking at for them to be set
free well first of all um Abby was just
mentioning you know some of the kids
that we need to keep in mind out of the
50 we're discussing only about 30 of
them will be kids eight of them will be
their mothers but uh Israel reports of
40 kids and 13 mothers so they're going
to be around probably 10 kids and five
more mothers that are staying in the
Gaza Street the other 12 hostages to be
released are probably elderly women uh
some of them also with some health
conditions um it still Le a lot more
hostages in the hands of Hamas most of
them soldiers men some of them elderly
over 80 uh with health condition and
hopefully Israel is hoping that what
they have set now is a formula with the
Hamas that allows for every day of
ceasefire to tend up to 10 to 12 people
to be released and hopefully in Israel
it will not end with 50 but can maybe
rise up to 80 hostages for about a week
of ceasefire which is what Hamas is very
much interested in and it's probably the
key to this breakthrough Israel claims
that its hard pressure on Gaza on the
northern part of Gaza is the determining
factor that leads Hamas finally to agree
to a deal because they need the time of
the ceasefire in order to regroup in
order to replenish their resourcs and
obviously most of all they need the fuel
that Israel is promising to deliver as
part of this deal now not everybody in
netanyahu's governing Coalition is on
board with this proposed deal could they
still block it no they don't have the
numbers um it's also part of the
political game they're playing this is
the more extreme right uh wings of the
party that um the Americans know of that
Israelis know of um and that's also
partly why Netanyahu extended his
government and brought more moderate
forces into the government because he
knew he would need more uh you know
voices to be grounding um his decisions
when it comes to this uh operation in
Gaza let's keep in mind what we're
talking about uh Israel cabinet is now
voting on this deal they will be up
opposition but it will get the majority
of votes then there are 24 hours for
appeals to the Israeli Supreme Court if
there are any people among Israelis
maybe families of those who are not
supposed to be released maybe people
connected to some of the prisoners
Israel has uh Palestinian prisons are
going to be release is part of these
deals um if their victims families of
their victims are interested in
appealing to the court they can do that
for the 24 hours and Israel is hoping to
see the first release sometimes around
Friday maybe Saturday um at the latest
so this is the timeline we're looking at
and this is uh there's still some time
also for the Israeli IDF forces to get
ready for the ceasefire that going to
put him a bit more vulnerable so they
need to be protecting themselves better
that's going to be happening also in the
next 48 hours exactly because it is very
much an Israel's interest to get as many
hostages out of Gaza as possible but how
dangerous can it be for the IDF and for
the operation in Gaza to allow Hamas to
regroup refuel kind of gather themselves
in those five days that we're well I do
have claims this is actually a great
timing because so far they've been
operating in a northern part of the Gaza
strep and they were planning to go into
the South so this is exactly the Half
Point uh for them also we need to keep
in mind when you look at Israeli
politician statements they are talking
about a long fight against Hamas they're
talking in in matter of months maybe up
to a year so in the greater scheme of
events this these few days this week or
two weeks of of the expected ceasefire
they don't see it to be such a crucial
element in the overall you know scheme
to annihilate hamas's rule in Gaza this
is the way Israeli see it and this is
also partially why Hamas is looking into
this deal they want to stall as much as
possible if they can use the hostages in
order to deter Israel from fighting they
hope that you know by the time you know
the longer it takes for Israel to
restart later uh is an advantage for
them and also they hope the
International Community will say after
two weeks or three weeks of ceasefire
okay let's move on the fighting phase
have have you know is behind us let's
try to find other Solutions this is
partly the assumption why Hamas is going
for this deal yeah Hamas and Israel the
Waring parties they don't talk directly
there's great hostilities and lots of
mistrust correct so how did this deal
come about well the key uh player
throughout you know the last 45 47 days
of of this uh what we're seeing is Qatar
you know this very tiny Golf Country who
managed to become a critical player uh
being great Ally for the us but also for
Hamas this is where also Hamas leaders
are based and sponsored by uh Qatar
throughout the years they are the cheap
negotiators but Egypt uh the neighbor of
Gaza and Israel is also a key partner
there helping the uh technicalities
because they're the one sharing the
Border direct border with Gaza and doing
the back and forth they have a lot of
experience with Hamas and its leaders
throughout the years so um many ways not
to directly speak but it seemed to be
finally working this is also why there's
a lot of hesitation a lot of carefulness
in is Israel many of them of the
politicians still saying nothing is over
till it's done even if Hamas agrees we
do not trust Hamas will deliver uh
because there are no direct negotiations
and there's always the fear of what's
going to be happening um until this is
done until the first israelies are back
at home uh no one's going to believe
that this is actually happening in
Israel yeah we just saw before we
started talking in Tel Aviv people are
out on the streets demanding netanyahu's
government do more to release all
hostage
now the pressure is very very high is
this potential deal going to do much to
ease that pressure because as you
mentioned at the beginning there will
still be some 190 people in the hands of
Hamas there's no doubt that the softest
spot is the kids and the and the mothers
the young kids you know youngest of them
was 9 months old when he was kidnapped
now he's already almost 11 months old
yeah um they're the softest spot and so
in that aspect there will be some
pressure taken off but at the same time
it's it's a split country there are
still uh voices they are against this
deal as we are speaking and there's a
lot of families torn knowing that if you
have a soldier a man you know men and
women that were soldiers that were still
left in hamas's hands hands you know
Israel in the last 47 days is grappling
what would be the victory what would be
the moment in which Israel can say we
have now the upper hand for many people
it's the release of all of these 200
almost 240 people home um and this is
not going to change it's a part of
Israeli ethic and what have been driving
the Israeli society and its values
throughout history um the pressure will
be on question is will Israel be able to
um still have some leeway in the
military aspect while uh trying to you
know find progress that's yet to be seen
it's going to be very hard for Israel to
manage to balance these two fighting
Hamas but at the same time negotiating
for more releases shie rosanes thank you
so much always
great we're joined Now by Bob kitchen
he's the International Rescue
committee's vice president for
emergencies and the organization
spokesperson on Gaza Mr kitchen welcome
to the day what would a ceasefire mean
for the civilians in
Gaza well first and foremost it would
mean uh an end to the violence that has
caused um the occupied Palestinian
territories Gaza to be the most deadly
place on Earth over the last 6 weeks the
fourth most deadly Justice for the whole
year so first and foremost it would
offer protection for civilians then
second it would offer humanitarian
organizations like the IRC the option of
being able to actually deliver Aid to
relieve suffering on the ground that's
really urgent right
now you have been calling for a
meaningful humanitarian ceasefire for
weeks is this
it it's a good start uh as the fighting
the violence has continued the uh the
impact on humanitarian uh conditions the
lives of people on the ground has gotten
much much worse so as that's gone on the
the length of the ceasefire has to get
longer and longer and we're at the point
now where we need a permanent ceasefire
for the violence to be over to stop the
dying and to enable Aid to relieve some
of the suffering M now a big concern is
for a to be delivered to Gaza and then
falling into the hands of Hamas how can
that be avoided and and procure help for
innocent civilians without then Hamas
seizing the goods that are being brought
into into the
strip well organizations like the IRC
and the partners we work with on the
ground operate in other high-risk
environments whether are non State armed
actors around us we have sophisticated
methods of both delivering Aid
registering clients to make sure we know
who we're we're providing assistance to
and then following up to make sure that
the aid is not diverted so this is
something that we we do in Northwest
Syria in Somalia uh in Northeastern
Nigeria so we we feel confident that we
will be able to get Aid to those that
need it the
most at this point there is basically
nothing that's not lacking in Gaza is
there but what is most urgently needed
now as far as you
concerned well surprisingly one of the
most urgent things is actually fuel
there are there is a trickle of Aid
getting in across the border from Egypt
but it's being compromised because it's
stuck there's no fuel in Gaza to enable
the trucks that you're showing now they
cross the border and then have to stop
CU there's there's no fuel to to enable
onwards Transportation there's no fuel
for generators to power hospitals
there's no fuel to power the generators
that people require to to produce food
so one fundamental thing that we need to
to make a change on is that fuel be
allowed in specifically for humanitarian
purposes that will Empower switching the
lights back on the machines back on in
hospitals get food flowing again and get
Aid into the hands of of people most
desperately in need now that you
mentioned the hospitals the who says
critical trauma care is not um possible
in any of gaza's hospital right now is
there any way of fixing a collapsed
system within a couple of days we're
looking at four or five days of
ceasefire right
now well that goes back to my initial
answer that four or five days isn't
sufficient given the level of
Destruction and humanitarian need that
we're facing but we can make progress if
we can get fuel in yet yes we can get
the hospitals back up and running light
switch back on Machines working
surgeries happening we can get uh
Pharmaceuticals uh anesthetics back into
the hands of doctors we can make a
difference very rapidly but four or five
days is not enough given the scale of
Destruction the the scale of damage and
and suffering that we see on the ground
so the ceasefire we're talking about is
limited in scope and this is not the end
of the war hardly the end of gin's
plight what needs to be done to
alleviate the suffering of those caught
in the middle of the fighting with
nowhere to
go well we've discussed getting Aid
across first is I think opening
additional border crossing so not all of
it has to go in through Egypt that's
difficult but is necessary to to provide
basic supplies food and water medicines
um non food items as the weather grows
colder people need warm clothes again so
that's one thing the second is that we
need people to have a space that is that
is safe so I mentioned earlier that Gaza
as a whole is the most dangerous place
in the world right now but if you just
look at Southern Gaza where it's
supposedly safe where people have been
told to evacuate to that is the second
most deadly place in the world so yes
the ceasefire is only short term we need
to be pushing for it to become long term
so people aren't afraid from bombings
fall bombs falling from the sky every
night now your organization was was
founded to help people survive recover
and rebuild the gazin who survived this
war how can they begin to recover and
can they ever
rebuild I certainly hope so it's one of
the most complex uh crisis in the world
with we're dealing with 2 million
civilians who have been displaced 1.5
displaced right now but over the years
the suffering that the Palestinians have
faced is significant um the path towards
peace is is not open right now member
states uh around the world need to push
forward this um humanitarian ceasefire
resolution of the UN to to stop the
fighting and then there needs to be
serious conversations about what's next
um so both sides of the conflict live in
peace but principally right now no more
lives are lost on the Palestinian side
that we can start the process of
reopening hospitals um finding ways to
get the people who have been displaced
back into to appropriate housing before
the winter turns too cold there's things
that we can do immediately the long term
is going to require some some
negotiations and commitment towards
peace who should be at the table there
talking for the Palestinian people
especially I think the lesson has been
learned a number of times in conflicts
around the world that it takes everyone
it takes representatives from um the
Palestinians uh from across the society
Civil Society political actors um that
are going to have to be around the table
to represent the views of the the 7
million people across the occupied
Palestinian territories it's take
everyone's voice being represented to
make to move forward do you think with
the current leadership as it as it is in
place in on both sides of the conflict
that this is a realistic
scenario I'm a humanitarian and I'm
focused on saving lives within the midst
of War I'm not a specialist on peace
negotiations um but I I fear at this
stage the distrust is significant that
the world is going to have to come
around and join hands with um both
parties to the conflict and and help
them forward towards peace for the
future this is Bob kitchen of the
International Rescue committee thank you
so
much